We know that the logistic equivalent model is no good for p15 as it
requires different starting nutrients for each culture, whereas we
expect that nutrients are distributed evenly in the agar at time zero.
Another explanation for the different final cell amounts could be that
growth is arresting. We do not currently have a model for this.

Current fitness estimates do not come from a mechanistic model but
they might still be better. Presumably they are calibrated against
prior knowledge. Could there be bias in comparison of these fitness
estimates with b as we are also validating competition model b rank
using the same prior knowlege.

We could validate the independent model using liquid cultures. We can
vary C_0 and N_0, fit, and see whether we get the same b values.


** We can convert competition model b to logistic model r and K.

When we fit the competition model, we estimate a plate level N_0, C_0
and kn and culture level bs. If we now take the values N_0, C_0 and bs
and resimulate with kn to zero we get symmetric logistic model
curves. By the definition of the competition model we interpret these
as the growth curves that would result if there was no competition
e.g. in liquid cultures. We can clearly convert to the r and K of
these curves using N_0, C_0 and b for each culture. Let's call these
r_c and K_c for competition (or corrected).

We can also fit the logistic model straight to our data giving us r_i
and K_i (independent). Or, we can get there via fits of the logistic
equivalent model and a parameter conversion.

By comparing the differences in variance in r and K between the two
types of fit we can test the validity of the competition model.

We could also directly compare (from the same fitted parameters) b and
MDR*MDP as fitness estimates based on prior knowledge. There is an
issue with the proposal of comparing K_i and K_c. Variance in K_c will
be zero. If variation in r_c is less than variation in r_i then that
is support for the competition model. If it is not then we do not know
because there is also variance in K_i which we are not taking into
account.
